what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if this is
the first time you're watching one of my
videos hi my name is Nasir and I'm now a
third year medical student studying at
King's College London you can also
follow me over on my instagram page for
more daily updates about my life at
medical school but for now let's jump
straight to the topic of this video
which is what my study strategy is on
medical school and how I can
consistently score well not draw my
academic life I've managed to be not
stressed or not worried for I'd say
about 95% of the exams and tests that
I've taken I've also managed to score
well on something like 95% of the tests
that I've taken and that's not because
I'm a genius or I'm really smart and
it's also not because I lock myself in
my room and study for hours on end it's
because I study smart and efficiently
and I think the mentality that I have
around studying and exams and succeeding
is a little bit different than most
people so today what I want to share
with you guys are some of the studying
strategies that I use to be able to
score well so consistently over the four
years of my undergraduate degree alright
so let's start by talking about my
mentality when it comes to exams and
assignments and tests whether I have a
final worth 40% or midterm worth 20% I
will still work as hard as I possibly
can to succeed in both of them there's
no point in me thinking oh this quiz is
only worth 2% or oh this assignment is
only worth 10% let me know work as hard
on it and I'll have to make up for that
extra loss when it comes to other parts
of the course module and other points
about the mentality when it comes to
exams exams are hard exams take a lot of
time to study for and it can be
stressful but the truth is after I've
spent a couple of weeks preparing for an
exam I've known that I've studied my
best and I've put in the hours and I've
put in the effort if a bunch of
questions come up that I've never seen
the material for before that's life and
if I don't do so well that's okay I've
already done everything that I can in my
power to put myself in the best position
to do well if I don't end up doing well
that doesn't mean that it wasn't worth
day all the work that I put in and that
doesn't mean that I didn't make the
right decisions when I was studying that
mentality of knowing that you're doing
what you can you're putting in the
effort you're putting in the work is
what helps me de-stress and not worry
about upcoming exams so when we have an
exam at the end of the year or at the
end of a semester will usually have
somewhere between one to three weeks off
from school in order to study during
that time of course I studied very very
hard and I do a lot of work however in
reality I've actually
working towards studying for this exam
from the very beginning of that school
year and that's because I take my notes
every single day whether that's for
lectures tutorials workshops whatever it
is every day I put in a small amount of
work so for example today I have five
lectures scheduled and that means by
either today or tomorrow I will have
written all of my notes for those five
lectures so when it comes exam time in
December all I have to do is read them
learn them memorize them and I don't
have to start from scratch writing those
notes or learning that material because
I already did it a couple of months ago
in September I will have already seen
all of the material that's going to be
tested at least once so when you're
reading it again it's almost like a
second read-through it's like you're
building on the foundation of knowledge
that you already have secondly around
exam time in those one to three weeks
that we have off in order to prepare for
exams I really do put in the work of
course I still maintain a balanced life
by going to the gym doing exercise
seeing my friends etc but here the
priority is studying for my exams and
during this period I always study for
the exact same number of hours and I
always study with the exact same routine
I set myself a goal of eight hours of
studying in a day I wake up at seven I'm
at the library and I start studying at
nine I study from nine till one take a
two hour lunch break and chill break
from one till three study again from 3
till seven now following that timetable
I've already studied for eight hours in
the day and it's only 7 p.m. and that's
honestly already very good if you can
keep up eight hours of studying a day
for one to three weeks you're gonna be
able to cover a lot of material at 7
p.m. I can either take off the rest of
the day make sure that I can relax enjoy
myself and maintain a balanced life so
that I can continue studying for eight
hours a day for the coming weeks or if
I'm still in the study mood and I feel
like I can do more I'll take a one-hour
break from 7:00 till 8:00 and then study
from 8:00 till 9:00 or 8:00 till 10:00
depending on how I'm feeling or how
close I am to the exam or how much
material there is left etc so this
structure that I have this consistency
that I have when it comes to studying
for exams is something that's very very
beneficial it's almost like a guaranteed
fact of life that I know around exam
time this is the routine that I'm gonna
have and this is how much studying I'm
gonna do and that really makes it simple
for me it takes out all of the stress
about having to plan when I'm gonna
study having to plan my revision
timetable etc I know that it's always
going to be the same and that's
how it's gonna be and before we move on
to the next tip I want to give a quick
shout out to the sponsor of today's
video Skillshare Skillshare of course is
the online learning community with
thousands of classes covering lots of
different entrepreneurial and creative
skills the Premium Membership gives you
unlimited access so you can find the
perfect community and classes for you
I've personally used Skillshare in order
to improve my editing techniques for
videos like this and also teach me more
about the YouTube algorithm search
engine optimization and everything like
that whether you want to learn a new
skill or you want to explore your own
creativity skill share is the perfect
place to continue learning skill share
is also extremely affordable with their
annual subscription being less than $10
a month it's a service that I personally
use a service that I've actually found
useful in improving my skill set and
because skill share is sponsoring this
video you guys can get a two month free
trial by clicking on the links in the
description down below and you can learn
more about skill share over there
anyways onto the next tip now let's talk
about studying smart and studying
efficiently for a second on any given
test and I believe this is especially
true if you're studying medicine 80% of
the marks that you're gonna get are
gonna come from about 20% of the
material that you have to study these
are the topics that come up over and
over and over again and that's because
they're the ones that are most important
because you're gonna see them most
commonly when you're working as a doctor
etc I make it my goal to cover all of
the material that could come up on a
test but my farm most importantly and
especially if you're crunched for time
high-yield material is where you have to
focus okay now let's move on to talking
about time management you've heard
before that I have that very strict
studying schedule so obviously my time
management skills are quite good and
something that really helps me stick to
this schedule and something that really
helps me be okay with the amount of
hours that I put in studying is very
strongly differentiating my work time
from my studying time when it comes time
to studying between those hours of 9:00
to 1:00 and 3:00 to 7:00
I am only studying I put my phone behind
my laptops that it's not even in my
field of view I don't open Facebook I
don't open YouTube I just sit down I
lock in and I focus on my work now
outside of those times I can do whatever
I want
found on a binge Netflix shows on my bed
if I wanna go for a run or go to the gym
if I want to go play video games with my
friends or play video games on my
playstation 4 here I can do that I make
sure that I'm doing something that I
actually enjoy I don't think about work
for a second I try
relax I enjoy myself because if I have
so much fun during those times when it
comes time to study it's fine I've
already chilled
I've already had fun I've already
benched for shows of the latest Netflix
series I don't feel the need to do that
because I just did that now it's time to
study so that's sort of the relationship
that I have with my work and that's how
I separate my work from my chill or my
fun time also hugely important to me is
stress relief luckily I think I'm a
person that's able to sort of put
different things in boxes
you know if I'm working but I'm also
really stressed about some other life
thing that I have to do I can sort of
put that in a box and put it in a side
focus on my work for the next 2-3 hours
whatever it is I need to do and then I
can worry about those other stressors so
that sort of compartmentalization or
pushing things aside putting things in
boxes is something that if you can train
yourself to do I think would be very
very valuable because it allows you to
focus on the task at hand and deal with
other things later when you allocate
time to them also speaking about stress
you know naturally you're going to get
stressed at university there are going
to be times when you have lots of
different things to do and you're gonna
feel overwhelmed for me whenever that
happens I just take a step back write
everything down on a piece of paper
allocate specific dates on times for
when they're gonna get done and that
makes me feel good because I know that
they're gonna be finished and done with
at a certain period of time but
inevitably especially a medical school
there's always this sort of underlying
baseline level of stress so what I find
very very good for that besides
obviously chilling with friends and
going down and having fun is just the
gym or physical exercise going for a run
or going to the gym is something that I
I couldn't replace with anything else so
if you can do some sort of physical
exercise whatever that is I would highly
highly recommend that now after having
taken all these things that I just
talked about into account when it comes
to exams when it comes to preparing for
exams I honestly can say that I feel
almost zero stress I know that I've
either already put in the work or I'm
going to put in the work to put myself
in a position where I have the best
chance of succeeding if I don't succeed
that happens sometimes and you know you
reflect on what happened what went wrong
and how you can change in the future
and if you do succeed you can think
about what went well and what you're
gonna keep doing when moving forward
these are all the reassurances that I
could possibly give myself that I know
that I'm gonna work hard then I know I'm
going to do my best and that's all that
I need to clear my conscience
not feel stressed about upcoming tests
or exams and finally on an important
note studying is equally as important as
enjoying yourself going out relaxing
chilling with friends doing exercise
whatever it is that makes you happy I
think that balance is really the major
key that helps me not be stressed before
exams tests or assignments and with that
thing I'm gonna sign off this video here
thank you so much for watching please do
leave a like on this video if you
enjoyed it and also subscribe to my
channel to see more videos from me in
the future and I will see you in the
next one bass
you